Hello and welcome back to the course and table previously we learned how to create custom territories
through the group method.
Today we'll look at the second method you can use to create custom territories.
Let's have a quick look.
So I want to create a new map and this time instead of dragging straight away what I'm going to do is
I'm going to apply the second method instantly so I'm going to select a sales region going to right
click and what I'm going to do is and which things are graphical.
Then I'll say I create from and select state here so you can see sales region has now automatically
jumped into this hierarchy of geographic Krall's above state.
So let's quickly discuss what exactly happened there.
So if you go to the data source you'll see that apart from these two new Kaliko fields so this is the
group and this is the return on marking investment that we calculate previously.
You'll see that here you've got the sales region.
So what Tablo is doing when you're telling it to create a geographic roll for sales region based on
state what is it's doing is it's looking at the data set and it's realizing that actually in this data
set even though sales region is not a recognized geographical roll.
There's a geographical roll named state and every sales region is associated with a state or actually
the other way around.
Every state is associated with a sales region.
So tabel can recognize that.
And then when you tell it to create a say a geographical roll for sales region what it basically does
is it aggregates all of the states to the associated sales region.
So does that aggregation for you.
And then from there it will know that region 2 is a combination of Arizona Texas Washington Texas Kansas
and so on and so basically it does that hard calculation or hard work for you and in the end you've
got two lovely sales regions which you can use as geographical or custom territories and let's have
a look at that some back in the sheet now and what I'm going to do is I'm going to take sales region
and I'm just simply going to drag it onto our map.
And as you can see now if you zoom out you have we have just two dots because those are representing
our two selves regions.
And I can simply now change this to a field map.
Let me just pan this a little bit so that these blocks away or let's zoom back in so you can see that's
our field map.
And again we can just simply take this hold on control drag into color and we've achieved exactly the
same result so we can't take our revenue right click put it in here.
Average revenue average return on market investment.
Our average average marking spend if you right click again and we can also put the sales region into
our label.
There we go.
So as simple as that.
Now this second approach it might've seemed much quicker just that's just because in the first approach
we performed here.
We had to talk through it and it was the first time we're talking about CASM territories.
Now we were pretty used to them and that's why it's so much quicker.
In reality I think that the first approach is simpler because you just select the objects on the map
and you put them into a group.
But the second approach is more versatile and it's kind of like more proper.
So you actually create this geographical role so you can see in this situation we actually puts cells
region we created as a lower standard a geographic role so in that sense it's more of a solid process
rather than just picking things out on a map you're actually assigning the geographical role and then
using.
So both approaches are valid and depending on your circumstances and what exactly you're trying to create
you might use one or the other.
Just remember about them and remember that this is a very powerful tool.
So it doesn't have to be states that you can be working with countries and you can put different countries
into geographical regions or he can be working with other existing geographical roles and then assign
their aggregations custom geographical roles so that can be a very very powerful feature as you can
see right away here.
We were able to create this resolution very quickly and perform some analytics around it already.
So there we go.
Hope you enjoyed today's tutorial.
Have a play around with that and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.